docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md, before:

# Troubleshooting Guide

Common issues and solutions for Neru.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Quick Diagnosis](#quick-diagnosis)
- [Installation & Setup](#installation--setup)
- [Permissions](#permissions)
- [Hints & Grids](#hints--grids)
- [Hotkeys](#hotkeys)
- [Performance](#performance)
- [Daemon](#daemon)
- [App-Specific](#app-specific)
- [Keyboard Layout Issues](#keyboard-layout-issues)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Debugging](#debugging)

---

## Quick Diagnosis

**Not working at all?** Check these first:

```bash
# 1. Is daemon running?
neru status

# 2. Check permissions
neru doctor

# 3. Test basic functionality
neru hints  # Should show hints

# 4. Check logs
tail -20 ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log
```

**Common issues:**

- ❌ **"Failed to connect to Neru daemon"** → Daemon not running, run `neru launch`
- ❌ **"Permission denied"** → Grant accessibility permissions
- ❌ **No hints appear** → Check app exclusions, try different app

---

## Installation & Setup

**"Cannot open Neru because the developer cannot be verified"**

```bash
xattr -cr /Applications/Neru.app  # Remove quarantine
open -a Neru
```

**"Command not found: neru"**

```bash
# Add to PATH
export PATH="/usr/local/bin:$PATH"
# Add to ~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc
```

**Homebrew fails**

```bash
brew update && brew reinstall --cask neru
```

---

## Permissions

### Accessibility Permissions

**Required for Neru to function.**

**Grant permissions:**

1. System Settings → Privacy & Security → Accessibility
2. Add Neru and ensure checkbox is enabled

**Reset if not working:**

1. Remove Neru from list
2. Re-add Neru
3. Restart: `pkill neru && neru launch`

**Check health:** `neru doctor`

---

## Hints & Grids

### No hints/grids appear

**Check:**

```bash
neru status              # Daemon running?
neru doctor              # Permissions OK?
neru hints               # CLI works?
```

**Common fixes:**

- Start daemon: `neru launch`
- Grant permissions (see Permissions section)
- Remove app from `excluded_apps` in config
- Test in different app

### Misaligned hints/grids

**Rare issue.** Enable debug logging and check logs:

```toml
[logging]
log_level = "debug"
```

### Electron/Chromium/Firefox issues

**Enable additional AX support:**

```toml
[hints.additional_ax_support]
enable = true
```

### Menubar/Dock hints missing

```toml
[hints]
include_menubar_hints = true
include_dock_hints = true
```

### Hints or grids appear but are misaligned

Hints or grids should always be accurate. This is rare.\*\*

**Solution:**

```bash
# Enable debug logging
# Edit ~/.config/neru/config.toml:
[logging]
log_level = "debug"

# Restart and check logs
pkill neru && neru launch
tail -f ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Report issue with:
# - macOS version
# - App name and version
# - Screenshot
```

### Hints don't appear in Electron apps

**Electron apps need additional AX support.**

**Solution:**

Edit `~/.config/neru/config.toml`:

```toml
[hints.additional_ax_support]
enable = true

# If your app isn't auto-detected, add it:
additional_electron_bundles = [
    "com.your.electronapp",
]
```

Restart Neru:

```bash
pkill neru && neru launch
```

**Check logs for:**

```
App requires Electron support
Enabled AXManualAccessibility for: com.your.app
```

### Hints don't appear in Chrome/Firefox content

**Browser needs additional AX support.**

### No hints in menubar/Dock

**Disabled in config or not enabled.**

**Solution:**

```toml
[hints]
include_menubar_hints = true
include_dock_hints = true

# For specific menubar apps:
additional_menubar_hints_targets = [
    "com.apple.controlcenter",
    "net.kovidgoyal.kitty",  # Example
]
```

---

## Hotkeys Not Working

### Hotkey does nothing

**Possible causes:**

1. Hotkey conflict with another app
2. Daemon not running
3. App is excluded
4. Incorrect hotkey syntax

**Solutions:**

```bash
# 1. Test with CLI to bypass hotkey system
neru hints

# If CLI works, it's a hotkey issue

# 2. Check daemon status
neru status

# 3. Try different hotkey combo
# Edit ~/.config/neru/config.toml:
[hotkeys]
"Ctrl+F" = "hints"  # Try this instead

# 4. Verify syntax is correct
# Modifiers: Cmd, Ctrl, Alt/Option, Shift
# Format: "Mod1+Mod2+Key" = "action"
```

### Hotkey works in some apps but not others

**App is in excluded list.**

**Solution:**

```toml
[general]
excluded_apps = [
    # "com.apple.Terminal",  # Comment out to enable
]
```

Find bundle ID:

```bash
osascript -e 'id of app "AppName"'
```

### Hotkey conflicts with system shortcuts

**Solution:**

**Option 1: Change Neru hotkey**

```toml
[hotkeys]
"Cmd+Shift+Space" = ""  # Disable default
"Ctrl+Alt+Space" = "hints"  # Use different combo
```

**Option 2: Disable system shortcut**

1. Open **System Settings → Keyboard → Keyboard Shortcuts**
2. Find conflicting shortcut
3. Disable or change it

**Option 3: Use external hotkey manager**

```bash
# Use skhd or similar instead of Neru hotkeys
# ~/.config/skhd/skhdrc
ctrl - f : neru hints
```

Then disable Neru hotkeys:

```toml
[hotkeys]
# Leave empty or comment out all hotkeys
```

---

## Performance Issues

### Hints appear slowly

Possible causes:\*\*

1. Too many depth levels in the accessibility tree of current activation
2. Debug logging enabled
3. System resource constraints

**Solution:**

```bash
# 1. Remove unnecessary AXRoles in your config
# 2. Disable debug logging
[logging]
log_level = "info"  # Not "debug"

# 3. Check system resources
top -o cpu
```

### High CPU usage

**Neru should not use too much CPU.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Check Neru CPU usage
top -pid $(pgrep neru)

# Check logs for errors
tail -f ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log | grep ERROR

# Restart daemon
pkill neru && neru launch
```

---

## Daemon Issues

### "Failed to connect to Neru daemon"

**Daemon not running.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Start daemon
neru launch

# Check status
neru status

# If still failing, check for stale socket (path is printed in logs; typically under /var/folders/.../T)
rm -f /var/folders/*/*/T/neru.sock
neru launch
```

### Daemon crashes on startup

**Configuration error or system issue.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Check logs
cat ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Try with default config
neru launch  # Uses defaults if no config file

# Try with minimal config
mkdir -p ~/.config/neru
cat > ~/.config/neru/config.toml << EOF
[hotkeys]
"Cmd+Shift+Space" = "hints"

[logging]
log_level = "debug"
EOF

neru launch
```

### Daemon stops responding

**IPC socket issue or daemon hung.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Force quit
pkill -9 neru

# Clean up socket (path is printed in logs; typically under /var/folders/.../T)
rm -f /var/folders/*/*/T/neru.sock

# Restart
neru launch

# Monitor logs
tail -f ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log
```

### Daemon won't quit

**Force termination needed.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Force quit
pkill -9 neru

# Or use Activity Monitor:
# 1. Open Activity Monitor
# 2. Search "Neru"
# 3. Select and click "Force Quit"
```

---

## App-Specific Issues

### VS Code: Hints don't appear in editor

**Electron AX support needed.**

**Solution:**

```toml
[hints.additional_ax_support]
enable = true
# VS Code is auto-detected
```

### Adobe apps: Hints misaligned or missing

**Adobe apps may need custom roles.**

**Solution:**

```toml
[[hints.app_configs]]
bundle_id = "com.adobe.illustrator"
additional_clickable_roles = ["AXStaticText", "AXImage"]
ignore_clickable_check = true
```

Find bundle ID:

```bash
osascript -e 'id of app "Adobe Illustrator"'
```

### Mission Control: No hints

**Ensure Dock hints are enabled (Mission Control uses Dock).**

**Solution:**

```toml
[general]
include_dock_hints = true
```

---

## Keyboard Layout Issues

### Wrong characters produced when typing

Neru supports most keyboard layouts including QWERTY, AZERTY, QWERTZ, Dvorak, and Colemak. Neru automatically detects your physical keyboard layout via macOS and translates keycodes accordingly.

If you're still experiencing issues:

1. **Check your keyboard layout is properly configured in macOS:**
    - System Settings → Keyboard → Input Source
    - Ensure your desired layout is added and selected

2. **Layout not detected correctly:**
    - Some custom layouts may not be detected properly
    - Try switching to a standard layout (US QWERTY, Colemak, Dvorak) in macOS input settings

### Input methods not working (CJK IME)

Neru now supports CJK input methods (Pinyin, Wubi, etc.). When using an input method:

- Hints work correctly
- Key presses are translated through your physical keyboard layout
- The input method receives keys as expected

If input methods still don't work:

- Ensure the input method is properly installed and active in macOS
- Check that Accessibility permissions are granted to Neru

---

## Configuration Issues

### Config changes not taking effect

**Daemon needs restart to reload config.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Restart daemon
pkill neru && neru launch

# Verify config location
neru status
# Check "Config:" line
```

### "Failed to parse config"

**TOML syntax error.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Check logs
cat ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log | grep ERROR

# Common issues:
# - Missing quotes around keys/values
# - Incorrect section headers
# - Invalid TOML syntax

# Validate TOML syntax online:
# https://www.toml-lint.com/

# Or use default config as reference:
curl -o /tmp/default.toml \
  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/y3owk1n/neru/main/configs/default-config.toml
```

### Colors not working

**Check hex color format.**

**Solution:**

```toml
# Correct:
background_color = "#FFD700"

# Incorrect:
background_color = "FFD700"   # Missing #
background_color = "#FFFGG"   # Invalid hex
```

### Hotkeys in wrong format

**Check modifier syntax.**

**Solution:**

```toml
# Correct:
"Cmd+Shift+Space" = "hints"

# Incorrect:
"Cmd-Shift-Space" = "hints"  # Use +, not -
"CMD+SHIFT+SPACE" = "hints"  # Use proper case
```

---

## Logging and Debugging

### Enable debug logging

```toml
[logging]
log_level = "debug"
```

Restart:

```bash
pkill neru && neru launch
```

### View logs

```bash
# Real-time monitoring
tail -f ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Last 100 lines
tail -100 ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Search for errors
grep ERROR ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Search for specific app
grep "com.apple.Safari" ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log
```

### Common log messages

**"App requires Electron support"** - Electron app detected, needs AX support enabled

**"Enabled AXManualAccessibility"** - Electron support activated successfully

**"No clickable elements found"** - No hints to show (app may need custom config)

**"Failed to get AX elements"** - Accessibility permission issue

### Clear logs

```bash
# Remove old logs
rm ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Restart daemon (creates fresh log)
pkill neru && neru launch
```

---

## Getting Help

If none of these solutions work:

1. **Gather information:**
    - macOS version: `sw_vers`
    - Neru version: `neru --version`
    - App name and version where issue occurs
    - Config file (anonymize if needed)
    - Relevant logs

2. **Search existing issues:**
    - <https://github.com/y3owk1n/neru/issues>

3. **Open an issue:**
    - Include all gathered information
    - Describe expected vs actual behavior
    - Steps to reproduce

4. **Consider a PR:**
    - Pull requests are more likely to be reviewed than issues
    - Fix the problem yourself and contribute back
    - See [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) for contribution guidelines

---

## Emergency Reset

If Neru is completely broken:

```bash
# 1. Force quit
pkill -9 neru

# 2. Remove all Neru files
rm -rf /Applications/Neru.app
rm -f /usr/local/bin/neru
rm -rf ~/.config/neru
rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/neru
rm -rf ~/Library/Logs/neru
# IPC socket lives under the OS temp directory
rm -f /var/folders/*/*/T/neru.sock

# 3. Reinstall
brew reinstall --cask neru
# or build from source

# 4. Fresh start (no config)
neru launch

# 5. Grant permissions again
# System Settings → Privacy & Security → Accessibility
```

Commit message:

feat: add config to enable `detect_mission_control`, off by default

docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md, after:

# Troubleshooting Guide

Common issues and solutions for Neru.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Quick Diagnosis](#quick-diagnosis)
- [Installation & Setup](#installation--setup)
- [Permissions](#permissions)
- [Hints & Grids](#hints--grids)
- [Hotkeys](#hotkeys)
- [Performance](#performance)
- [Daemon](#daemon)
- [App-Specific](#app-specific)
- [Keyboard Layout Issues](#keyboard-layout-issues)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Debugging](#debugging)

---

## Quick Diagnosis

**Not working at all?** Check these first:

```bash
# 1. Is daemon running?
neru status

# 2. Check permissions
neru doctor

# 3. Test basic functionality
neru hints  # Should show hints

# 4. Check logs
tail -20 ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log
```

**Common issues:**

- ❌ **"Failed to connect to Neru daemon"** → Daemon not running, run `neru launch`
- ❌ **"Permission denied"** → Grant accessibility permissions
- ❌ **No hints appear** → Check app exclusions, try different app

---

## Installation & Setup

**"Cannot open Neru because the developer cannot be verified"**

```bash
xattr -cr /Applications/Neru.app  # Remove quarantine
open -a Neru
```

**"Command not found: neru"**

```bash
# Add to PATH
export PATH="/usr/local/bin:$PATH"
# Add to ~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc
```

**Homebrew fails**

```bash
brew update && brew reinstall --cask neru
```

---

## Permissions

### Accessibility Permissions

**Required for Neru to function.**

**Grant permissions:**

1. System Settings → Privacy & Security → Accessibility
2. Add Neru and ensure checkbox is enabled

**Reset if not working:**

1. Remove Neru from list
2. Re-add Neru
3. Restart: `pkill neru && neru launch`

**Check health:** `neru doctor`

---

## Hints & Grids

### No hints/grids appear

**Check:**

```bash
neru status              # Daemon running?
neru doctor              # Permissions OK?
neru hints               # CLI works?
```

**Common fixes:**

- Start daemon: `neru launch`
- Grant permissions (see Permissions section)
- Remove app from `excluded_apps` in config
- Test in different app

### Misaligned hints/grids

**Rare issue.** Enable debug logging and check logs:

```toml
[logging]
log_level = "debug"
```

### Electron/Chromium/Firefox issues

**Enable additional AX support:**

```toml
[hints.additional_ax_support]
enable = true
```

### Menubar/Dock hints missing

```toml
[hints]
include_menubar_hints = true
include_dock_hints = true
```

### Hints or grids appear but are misaligned

Hints or grids should always be accurate. This is rare.\*\*

**Solution:**

```bash
# Enable debug logging
# Edit ~/.config/neru/config.toml:
[logging]
log_level = "debug"

# Restart and check logs
pkill neru && neru launch
tail -f ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Report issue with:
# - macOS version
# - App name and version
# - Screenshot
```

### Hints don't appear in Electron apps

**Electron apps need additional AX support.**

**Solution:**

Edit `~/.config/neru/config.toml`:

```toml
[hints.additional_ax_support]
enable = true

# If your app isn't auto-detected, add it:
additional_electron_bundles = [
    "com.your.electronapp",
]
```

Restart Neru:

```bash
pkill neru && neru launch
```

**Check logs for:**

```
App requires Electron support
Enabled AXManualAccessibility for: com.your.app
```

### Hints don't appear in Chrome/Firefox content

**Browser needs additional AX support.**

### No hints in menubar/Dock

**Disabled in config or not enabled.**

**Solution:**

```toml
[hints]
include_menubar_hints = true
include_dock_hints = true

# For specific menubar apps:
additional_menubar_hints_targets = [
    "com.apple.controlcenter",
    "net.kovidgoyal.kitty",  # Example
]
```

---

## Hotkeys Not Working

### Hotkey does nothing

**Possible causes:**

1. Hotkey conflict with another app
2. Daemon not running
3. App is excluded
4. Incorrect hotkey syntax

**Solutions:**

```bash
# 1. Test with CLI to bypass hotkey system
neru hints

# If CLI works, it's a hotkey issue

# 2. Check daemon status
neru status

# 3. Try different hotkey combo
# Edit ~/.config/neru/config.toml:
[hotkeys]
"Ctrl+F" = "hints"  # Try this instead

# 4. Verify syntax is correct
# Modifiers: Cmd, Ctrl, Alt/Option, Shift
# Format: "Mod1+Mod2+Key" = "action"
```

### Hotkey works in some apps but not others

**App is in excluded list.**

**Solution:**

```toml
[general]
excluded_apps = [
    # "com.apple.Terminal",  # Comment out to enable
]
```

Find bundle ID:

```bash
osascript -e 'id of app "AppName"'
```

### Hotkey conflicts with system shortcuts

**Solution:**

**Option 1: Change Neru hotkey**

```toml
[hotkeys]
"Cmd+Shift+Space" = ""  # Disable default
"Ctrl+Alt+Space" = "hints"  # Use different combo
```

**Option 2: Disable system shortcut**

1. Open **System Settings → Keyboard → Keyboard Shortcuts**
2. Find conflicting shortcut
3. Disable or change it

**Option 3: Use external hotkey manager**

```bash
# Use skhd or similar instead of Neru hotkeys
# ~/.config/skhd/skhdrc
ctrl - f : neru hints
```

Then disable Neru hotkeys:

```toml
[hotkeys]
# Leave empty or comment out all hotkeys
```

---

## Performance Issues

### Hints appear slowly

Possible causes:\*\*

1. Too many depth levels in the accessibility tree of current activation
2. Debug logging enabled
3. System resource constraints

**Solution:**

```bash
# 1. Remove unnecessary AXRoles in your config
# 2. Disable debug logging
[logging]
log_level = "info"  # Not "debug"

# 3. Check system resources
top -o cpu
```

### High CPU usage

**Neru should not use too much CPU.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Check Neru CPU usage
top -pid $(pgrep neru)

# Check logs for errors
tail -f ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log | grep ERROR

# Restart daemon
pkill neru && neru launch
```

---

## Daemon Issues

### "Failed to connect to Neru daemon"

**Daemon not running.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Start daemon
neru launch

# Check status
neru status

# If still failing, check for stale socket (path is printed in logs; typically under /var/folders/.../T)
rm -f /var/folders/*/*/T/neru.sock
neru launch
```

### Daemon crashes on startup

**Configuration error or system issue.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Check logs
cat ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Try with default config
neru launch  # Uses defaults if no config file

# Try with minimal config
mkdir -p ~/.config/neru
cat > ~/.config/neru/config.toml << EOF
[hotkeys]
"Cmd+Shift+Space" = "hints"

[logging]
log_level = "debug"
EOF

neru launch
```

### Daemon stops responding

**IPC socket issue or daemon hung.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Force quit
pkill -9 neru

# Clean up socket (path is printed in logs; typically under /var/folders/.../T)
rm -f /var/folders/*/*/T/neru.sock

# Restart
neru launch

# Monitor logs
tail -f ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log
```

### Daemon won't quit

**Force termination needed.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Force quit
pkill -9 neru

# Or use Activity Monitor:
# 1. Open Activity Monitor
# 2. Search "Neru"
# 3. Select and click "Force Quit"
```

---

## App-Specific Issues

### VS Code: Hints don't appear in editor

**Electron AX support needed.**

**Solution:**

```toml
[hints.additional_ax_support]
enable = true
# VS Code is auto-detected
```

### Adobe apps: Hints misaligned or missing

**Adobe apps may need custom roles.**

**Solution:**

```toml
[[hints.app_configs]]
bundle_id = "com.adobe.illustrator"
additional_clickable_roles = ["AXStaticText", "AXImage"]
ignore_clickable_check = true
```

Find bundle ID:

```bash
osascript -e 'id of app "Adobe Illustrator"'
```

### Mission Control: No hints

**Ensure Dock hints are enabled (Mission Control uses Dock).**

**Solution:**

```toml
[hints]
include_dock_hints = true
detect_mission_control = true
```

> **Note:** `detect_mission_control` is only working on macOS 26.x (tahoe). Do not enable this if your macOS version is below Tahoe (26.x) at all cost!

---

## Keyboard Layout Issues

### Wrong characters produced when typing

Neru supports most keyboard layouts including QWERTY, AZERTY, QWERTZ, Dvorak, and Colemak. Neru automatically detects your physical keyboard layout via macOS and translates keycodes accordingly.

If you're still experiencing issues:

1. **Check your keyboard layout is properly configured in macOS:**
    - System Settings → Keyboard → Input Source
    - Ensure your desired layout is added and selected

2. **Layout not detected correctly:**
    - Some custom layouts may not be detected properly
    - Try switching to a standard layout (US QWERTY, Colemak, Dvorak) in macOS input settings

### Input methods not working (CJK IME)

Neru now supports CJK input methods (Pinyin, Wubi, etc.). When using an input method:

- Hints work correctly
- Key presses are translated through your physical keyboard layout
- The input method receives keys as expected

If input methods still don't work:

- Ensure the input method is properly installed and active in macOS
- Check that Accessibility permissions are granted to Neru

---

## Configuration Issues

### Config changes not taking effect

**Daemon needs restart to reload config.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Restart daemon
pkill neru && neru launch

# Verify config location
neru status
# Check "Config:" line
```

### "Failed to parse config"

**TOML syntax error.**

**Solution:**

```bash
# Check logs
cat ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log | grep ERROR

# Common issues:
# - Missing quotes around keys/values
# - Incorrect section headers
# - Invalid TOML syntax

# Validate TOML syntax online:
# https://www.toml-lint.com/

# Or use default config as reference:
curl -o /tmp/default.toml \
  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/y3owk1n/neru/main/configs/default-config.toml
```

### Colors not working

**Check hex color format.**

**Solution:**

```toml
# Correct:
background_color = "#FFD700"

# Incorrect:
background_color = "FFD700"   # Missing #
background_color = "#FFFGG"   # Invalid hex
```

### Hotkeys in wrong format

**Check modifier syntax.**

**Solution:**

```toml
# Correct:
"Cmd+Shift+Space" = "hints"

# Incorrect:
"Cmd-Shift-Space" = "hints"  # Use +, not -
"CMD+SHIFT+SPACE" = "hints"  # Use proper case
```

---

## Logging and Debugging

### Enable debug logging

```toml
[logging]
log_level = "debug"
```

Restart:

```bash
pkill neru && neru launch
```

### View logs

```bash
# Real-time monitoring
tail -f ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Last 100 lines
tail -100 ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Search for errors
grep ERROR ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Search for specific app
grep "com.apple.Safari" ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log
```

### Common log messages

**"App requires Electron support"** - Electron app detected, needs AX support enabled

**"Enabled AXManualAccessibility"** - Electron support activated successfully

**"No clickable elements found"** - No hints to show (app may need custom config)

**"Failed to get AX elements"** - Accessibility permission issue

### Clear logs

```bash
# Remove old logs
rm ~/Library/Logs/neru/app.log

# Restart daemon (creates fresh log)
pkill neru && neru launch
```

---

## Getting Help

If none of these solutions work:

1. **Gather information:**
    - macOS version: `sw_vers`
    - Neru version: `neru --version`
    - App name and version where issue occurs
    - Config file (anonymize if needed)
    - Relevant logs

2. **Search existing issues:**
    - <https://github.com/y3owk1n/neru/issues>

3. **Open an issue:**
    - Include all gathered information
    - Describe expected vs actual behavior
    - Steps to reproduce

4. **Consider a PR:**
    - Pull requests are more likely to be reviewed than issues
    - Fix the problem yourself and contribute back
    - See [DEVELOPMENT.md](DEVELOPMENT.md) for contribution guidelines

---

## Emergency Reset

If Neru is completely broken:

```bash
# 1. Force quit
pkill -9 neru

# 2. Remove all Neru files
rm -rf /Applications/Neru.app
rm -f /usr/local/bin/neru
rm -rf ~/.config/neru
rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Support/neru
rm -rf ~/Library/Logs/neru
# IPC socket lives under the OS temp directory
rm -f /var/folders/*/*/T/neru.sock

# 3. Reinstall
brew reinstall --cask neru
# or build from source

# 4. Fresh start (no config)
neru launch

# 5. Grant permissions again
# System Settings → Privacy & Security → Accessibility
```
